Firstly when updating the code, please use the linux standard - tab width 8,
and tabs not spaces for indenting.

Let me explain something about my intended structure: the drawing functions are
grouped according to type at present: so fbhline.[ch] contains all the code for
drawing a horizontal line, on any supported hardware.

Now I realise some of you will immediately think, why not group it according
to screen type, like the X server does? That would mean directories such as
ipl and chunky with a separate fbhline.c in each one. Well I'm not against
that, but I would like to keep the library unified, so that hardware may be
supported in the one version of the library. However I'm quite open on this,
and would welcome discussion of it on the nocrew-osis list.

For each drawing function (such as hline for horizontal lines), there are 3
'levels' of functions for the task.

1) Generic function, entirely in C, using lower level libfb functions.
This is genhl() in fbhline.c. Notice it uses the putpixel function of the libfb.

2) Screen specific function, entirely in C, using direct access to the
framebuffer. There will be many of these, one for each type of screen layout.
The remainder of functions in fbhline.c are an example of these functions.

3) Screen specific function, entirely in assembly, using direct access to the
framebuffer. These are optimized assembly versions of level 2) functions.
Currently there are no examples of this in libfb.

The rationale behind this scheme is that level 1) type functions enable rapid
development of the library, and easier porting to new machines. level 2) and 3)
functions can come later, and should be optimized for speed in C or asm
respectively. The level 2) functions are designed to enable fast versions of
routines to be able to be coded quickly and with some degree of portability.
Level 3) functions are designed to be the fastest, and should be used if
possible.

The next important place to look at is the file fbfuncs.c. Here all the function
pointers are assigned to the appropriate members in the FB struct. It should be
self explanatory upon inspection.

Why do it the 'clumsy' way in fbfuncs.c and assign each member explicitly?
The answer: speed.

Speed is the most important objective of this library.
------------------------------------------------------

I did not want the added burden of an extra pointer dereference every time a
drawing function is called, so that is why I did not conveniently place the
functions pointers in a static struct.

Please take a look at the FB management/VT switching code in fbopen.c/fbvt.c
there is probably quite a bit of rubbish that can be removed.

I'd be interested to hear comments about the VT switching scheme, any ideas to
make it faster and/or reduce the overhead per drawing call?

Please send unified diffs to the development list nocrew-osis@nocrew.org.

Martin Mitchell <gevans@mail.usyd.edu.au>
7/10/96

